[KubeRay][Doc] KubeRay doc migration (1/n) (#38647)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/cluster/kubernetes/k8s-ecosystem/ingress.md

(kuberay-ingress)=

# Ingress

> Here we provide some examples to show how to use ingress to access your Ray cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two examples show how to use ingress to access your Ray cluster:
```

>   * [Example: AWS Application Load Balancer (ALB) Ingress support on AWS EKS](#example-aws-application-load-balancer-alb-ingress-support-on-aws-eks)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * [AWS Application Load Balancer (ALB) Ingress support on AWS EKS](#example-aws-application-load-balancer-alb-ingress-support-on-aws-eks)
```

>   * [Example: Manually setting up NGINX Ingress on KinD](#example-manually-setting-up-nginx-ingress-on-kind)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * [Manually setting up NGINX Ingress on KinD](#example-manually-setting-up-nginx-ingress-on-kind)
```

> ## Example: AWS Application Load Balancer (ALB) Ingress support on AWS EKS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## AWS Application Load Balancer (ALB) Ingress support on AWS EKS
```

### Prerequisite

> * Follow the document [Getting started with Amazon EKS – AWS Management Console and AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/getting-started-console.html#eks-configure-kubectl) to create an EKS cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create an EKS cluster. See [Getting started with Amazon EKS – AWS Management Console and AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/getting-started-console.html#eks-configure-kubectl).
```

> * Follow the [installation instructions](https://kubernetes-sigs.github.io/aws-load-balancer-controller/latest/deploy/installation/) to set up the [AWS Load Balancer controller](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-load-balancer-controller). Note that the repository maintains a webpage for each release. Please make sure you use the latest installation instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* set up the [AWS Load Balancer controller](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-load-balancer-controller), see [installation instructions](https://kubernetes-sigs.github.io/aws-load-balancer-controller/latest/deploy/installation/). Note that the repository maintains a webpage for each release. Confirm that you are using the latest installation instructions.
```

> * (Optional) Try [echo server example](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-load-balancer-controller/blob/main/docs/examples/echo_server.md) in the [aws-load-balancer-controller](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-load-balancer-controller) repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* (Optional) Try the [echo server example](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-load-balancer-controller/blob/main/docs/examples/echo_server.md) in the [aws-load-balancer-controller](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-load-balancer-controller) repository.
```

> * (Optional) Read [how-it-works.md](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-load-balancer-controller/blob/main/docs/how-it-works.md) to understand the mechanism of [aws-load-balancer-controller](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-load-balancer-controller).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* (Optional) Read [how-it-works.md](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-load-balancer-controller/blob/main/docs/how-it-works.md) to understand the [aws-load-balancer-controller](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-load-balancer-controller) mechanism.
```

# Rules:
#  Host        Path  Backends
#  ----        ----  --------
#  *
#              /   ray-cluster-kuberay-head-svc:8265 (192.168.185.157:8265)
# Annotations: alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/scheme: internet-facing
#              alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/subnets: ${SUBNET_1},${SUBNET_2}
#              alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/tags: Environment=dev,Team=test
#              alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/target-type: ip
# Events:
#   Type    Reason                  Age   From     Message
#   ----    ------                  ----  ----     -------
#   Normal  SuccessfullyReconciled  39m   ingress  Successfully reconciled

# Step 6: Check ALB on AWS (EC2 -> Load Balancing -> Load Balancers)
#        The name of the ALB should be like "k8s-default-rayclust-......".

# Step 7: Check Ray Dashboard by ALB DNS Name. The name of the DNS Name should be like
#        "k8s-default-rayclust-.....us-west-2.elb.amazonaws.com"

# Step 8: Delete the ingress, and AWS Load Balancer controller will remove ALB.
#        Check ALB on AWS to make sure it is removed.
kubectl delete ingress ray-cluster-ingress
```

> ## Example: Manually setting up NGINX Ingress on KinD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Manually setting up NGINX Ingress on KinD
```
